All right.
So we're going to take a look inside one of our actual projects that we ran just told you a little bit
about what it did.
But I can show you that we followed pretty much all of the guidelines that we gave you in this course
gave a project description that wasn't overly wordy but it kind of gave you the 10000 foot description
and then it gave things like perks like down here we kind of describe saying you know we have lots of
projects this will be a long term thing.
There's lots of reasons why you should be excited about this and then gave in-depth instructions over
here in this document that we gave a nickname just for purposes of remembering it.
So I want to talk a little bit about how to overview some of the language that you get in your description
your proposals and a lot of times it's hard to read especially if you're not technical or you don't
have a lot of experience looking over proposals specifically on these online platforms.
You'll notice very quickly that there's a lot of themes that happen with people's messages.
This is different then say if you had posted a project on Craigslist or saw or if you directly contacted
a web development firm they would send you something entirely different it wouldn't look like this at
all.
So you'll notice that a lot of these messages have kind of conformed to the constraints of the actual
platform.
We can look it up work and freelancer as well but they're really the same thing.
Elance is easiest to look at because people actually put time into their messages whereas you'll notice
on up work and freelancer they pretty much devolve very quickly.
So if you can sniff out a good proposal.
Elance you can certainly find one in freelancer or upward.
So the first thing you'll notice pretty much immediately is that you'll notice that the country will
always match the way that they speak.
And occasionally you'll find situations where they don't they simply just don't match up.
This one says United States the man's name is Paul Matthews which is extremely American.
It's almost as if you are imitating an American.
But then when you read his English it actually comes off a little bit strange as if it was if it doesn't
really come from a native English speaker.
So that's typically something that you know you should be aware of.
Some times people say things like United States but rather not say whether or not they're the exact
same thing as hiring a Native American.
That's you have to actually look at their proposal and make a better decision about that.
I'll give you an example down here.
We have someone called Sereny him which is definitely not an American name listed as the United States.
And then he writes something down here which is just in one of the worst English you'll ever see.
So you'll notice there's a lot of disconnects.
This is something that's really bad on freelancer and it's really bad on up work a lot a lot of people
will list themselves in a nicer country because they think that's going to allow them to raise their
price.
And if they think that it makes him stick out.
But it's very obvious that that is not actually representative of them and where they're from.
OK.
So try to be aware of that these mismatches a lot of times you can very easily sniff out there's some
kind of a disconnect going on here and use that as a way of discounting some of these proposals.
So in this case we've got 18 proposals.
I'm not surprised because it's this is a low for us because one we didn't invite a lot of people to
it we only invited one group that we'd worked with before but also we are asking to use a service called
Twilley which is something that manages S-M mass and it's just something that not a ton of people know
how to use or have a lot of experience with it's very specific.
So in those cases yeah you would expect to get fewer proposals.
I'd say for a Twilio application 18 is pretty good.
OK so after you have kind of look for immediate mismatches.
And typically if I were doing this I would find this one.
And I would almost immediately hide this person's proposal something is completely off.
You'll notice this thing called Camel backing camel backing is not something you should ever do in your
messages.
It's when you put capitalizations randomly throughout your sentences and then the punctuation and then
lack of capitalization that's usually quite obvious to look for.
You'll notice that pretty much all over the place.
If it's a message coming from India and they're doing Caml backing that's completely normal.
You can see right here.
Details for your Android iPhone taxi driver app to manage drivers.
I don't know why that's capitalized.
That is something that is one cultural thing.
Indians will typically do that but also developers do that because developers have a tendency to Elize
anything that they think would represent like a user or represent a variable because in their language
they're actually programming it.
They have a tendency to capitalise it to show that this is a separate entity.
So when you combine the two.
Yeah you end up getting these really kind of weird style messages.
So after you look for immediate kind of mismatch it the second thing I like to screen over is to look
for whether or not the proposal gets off topic very quickly.
And what a kind of mean by that if they get off topic that means that they didn't read your your actual
description completely.
It means that they ran out of things to say and it means that they're probably copying a lot of information
into their proposal.
Now what does that kind of mean to me when I see a lot of template a lot of repeat of off topic discussion.
Usually that means to me what we call message fatigue.
So if you see message fatigue that just means that they are messaging tons of people and they've gotten
to a point where it's not realistic for them to write a custom thing every single time.
So you get a lot of copy and paste copy and paste and that just means that you know you're not going
to have their full attention.
That means there's there could be a potential problem that they pick up a project while they're working
on yours.
It's just not a professional thing.
So that's something that we try to avoid and I'll give you an example of someone who goes off topic
very quickly these first two up here you'll notice if you read their language this guy stayed Avid Technology
stayed on topic the entire time.
So hi there.
I've seen your requirement for the S based application this is true with S M s talks about his experience
in Twilio says what he programs and or what they program in which is you know this is fine.
It doesn't really matter what you use with Tullio gave an estimate for time this we'll discuss later.
Gave a link to their information and then right here gave an example of other things they've worked
on so they stayed on topic the entire time.
Not a fantastic proposal.
Not a lot of information but at least you can tell that they probably do not have message fatigue.
They're probably not building all over the place here.
OK so here is an example of someone who stays on topic some of the time and off topic some of the time.
So what you can see right here is he introduces himself My name is Paul mathies I'm an expert in Twilley.
That's what's important.
I'm a U.S. his head and with my office in Silicon Valley and have a development center in India.
OK that right there has nothing to do with my project.
And then this I just literally highlight all the information that has nothing to do with my project
whatsoever.
So right there is where he stops.
OK then he actually gets back to the point he says it's about six years of asterisked and trick's box
experience two years of Tulley experience.
Then he gets off topic again and he says you know I'm one of the best people ever here he gets on topic
and he lists out price time.
He lists out one of the requirements was that I was looking for someone who lives locally in this area.
So that's a plus.
Right here he gives an example of a Tullio project which is good so he's topic.
This section looks like he is not on topic but at the very end you notice that it involves phone call
so he is.
The job is completed in two days is completely worthless.
It means nothing to me I don't know how big the project was here.
He listed his sample work but he does a good job of only picking applications that involve s m s.
A lot of people will give you their sample work and they'll paste it in the message and has nothing
to do with it.
There's absolutely nothing to do with whatever you're asking.
So that's typically a bad thing if someone does that but it's good if this guy can honestly conjure
up three to four examples of things he's worked with SML.
That's a great thing.
And then right down here this is where he deviates.
He just copies and pastes some descriptions from testimonials which is fine.
This is typically inappropriate for a message.
You don't want to read all of this in your message unless it's pertinent to your project.
You can put this in your profile information and I can find that they are.
Trust me if I like what you say I'll read your profile.
I don't need to read this and the message just again comes off like you're trying to cram irrelevant
information into your post.